Improve content and order for the frontend data proxy documentation (#897)
grafana/plugin-tools: docusaurus/docs/create-a-plugin/extend-a-plugin/fetch-data-from-frontend.md

Instead of performing a request directly from the browser to the server, you perform the request through the Grafana backend server, which handles it and returns the response to the plugin.

- **Without data proxy**: The requests go directly from the browser to the third-party server.

> - **With data proxy**: The requests go from the browser to the Grafana backend and then to the third-party server. In this case, there are no restrictions in CORS, and you can instruct Grafana to send the request authenticated or using sensitive data stored in the plugin configuration.

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
- **With data proxy**: The requests go from the browser to the Grafana backend and then to the third-party server. In this case, there are no restrictions in CORS, and you can instruct Grafana to send the request authenticated by using sensitive data stored in the plugin configuration.
```

Reviewer: Do we have any examples below of using sensitive data for proxy route headers? If yes it might makes sense to link from here?

:::note
You can only make use of the data proxy from data source and app plugins. _You can't use the data proxy from panel plugins._
:::

## How to use the data proxy in data source plugins

The easiest way to use the data proxy from a datasource plugin is using the [`DataSourceHttpSettings`](https://developers.grafana.com/ui/latest/index.html?path=/docs/data-source-datasourcehttpsettings--docs) component.

### Step 1: Use the `DataSourceHttpSettings` component in your data source plugin configuration page

```typescript title="src/ConfigEditor.tsx"
import React from 'react';
import { DataSourceHttpSettings } from '@grafana/ui';
import { DataSourcePluginOptionsEditorProps } from '@grafana/data';

export function ConfigEditor(props: DataSourcePluginOptionsEditorProps) {
  const { onOptionsChange, options } = props;

  return (
    <DataSourceHttpSettings
      defaultUrl="https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/"
      dataSourceConfig={options}
      onChange={onOptionsChange}
    />
  );
}
```

> The `DataSourceHttpSettings` will display a form with all the options for the user to configure an http endpoint, including authentication, TLS, cookies and timeout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `DataSourceHttpSettings` will display a form with all the options for the user to configure an HTTP endpoint, including authentication, TLS, cookies, and timeout.
```

### Step 2: Use the data proxy in your data source plugin

> Once the user had input the endpoint details in the data source configuration page, you can query the data proxy url that is passed in the data source instanceSettings (`DataSourceInstanceSettings.url`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the user has entered the endpoint details in the data source configuration page, you can query the data proxy url that is passed in the data source instanceSettings (`DataSourceInstanceSettings.url`).
```

> Once the user has entered the endpoint details in the data source configuration page, you can query the data proxy url that is passed in the data source instanceSettings (`DataSourceInstanceSettings.url`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the user has entered the endpoint details in the data source configuration page, you can query the data proxy URL that is passed in the data source instance settings (`DataSourceInstanceSettings.url`).
```

  async query(options: DataQueryRequest): Promise<DataQueryResponse> {
    const response = getBackendSrv().fetch<TODO[]>({

>       // see `this.baseUrl` set in the constructor

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
      // You can see above that `this.baseUrl` is set in the constructor
```

}
```

:: note
The user must first configure the data source in the configuration page before the data source can query
the endpoint via the data source. If the data source is not configured, the data proxy won't know which
endpoint to send the request to.
::

## How to use the data proxy in data source plugins with a custom configuration page

If you don't want to use the `DataSourceHttpSettings` component and instead create your own configuration page
you will have to do some additonal setup in your plugin.

### Step 1: Declare your route in your plugin metadata

You first need to set up the routes in your `plugin.json` metadata.

```json title="src/plugin.json"
"routes": [
	{
	  "path": "myRoutePath",
	  "url": "{{ .JsonData.apiUrl }}"
	}
],
```

> Notice the `url` value contains an interpolation of the `apiUrl` from the `jsonData`. Your configuration page must set `apiUrl` in the Configuration page from user input.

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
Notice that the `url` value contains an interpolation of `jsonData.apiUrl`. Your configuration page must take care of setting the `apiUrl` in the `jsonData` object based on the user input.
```

        width={40}
      />
    </InlineField>
    {/* The rest of your configuration page form */}
  );
}
```

### Step 3: Fetch data from your frontend code

In your data source plugin, you can now fetch data by using the proxy URL.

> See the [previous example](#step-2-create-your-configuration-page) as the code is the same.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to the [previous example](#step-2-create-your-configuration-page), as the code is the same.
```

## Use the data proxy within an app plugin

> The setup of routes in your `plugin.json` metadata remains the same as in a data source plugin; however, since app plugins don't receive the URL as part of the props, the URL is constructed like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The setup of routes in your `plugin.json` metadata remains the same as in a data source plugin. However, since app plugins don't receive the URL as part of the props, the URL is constructed like this:
```

```typescript

> const dataProxyUrl = `api/plugin-proxy/${your - plugin - id}/yourRoutePath`;

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
const dataProxyUrl = `api/plugin-proxy/${PLUGIN_ID}/yourRoutePath`;
```

```

Here is an example of a function that fetches data from the data proxy in an app plugin:

Declare the route in `src/plugin.json`. You may also use authenticated requests and jsonData interpolation like in data source plugins.

```json title="src/plugin.json"
"routes": [
{
        "path": "myRoutePath",
        "url": "https://api.example.com",
        // jsonData interpolation is also possible
        //"url": "{{ .JsonData.apiUrl }}",
}]
```

In your App plugin code you can then fetch data using the data proxy by constructing the data proxy url like this.

```typescript title="src/dataproxy-api-example.ts"
import { getBackendSrv } from '@grafana/runtime';
import { lastValueFrom } from 'rxjs';

async function getDataFromApi() {

>   const dataProxyUrl = `api/plugin-proxy/${your - plugin - id}/myRoutePath`;

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
  const dataProxyUrl = `api/plugin-proxy/${PLUGIN_ID}/myRoutePath`;
```

With this configuration, the Grafana server output shows the requests going out to your API from the data proxy.

> ## Send special headers using the data proxy

Reviewer 3: I think this is covered here as well so maybe not needed? https://grafana.com/developers/plugin-tools/create-a-plugin/extend-a-plugin/add-authentication-for-data-source-plugins#add-http-headers-to-a-proxy-route

Author: It is indeed but I decided to duplicate the information to have it at hand in a single place ,Maybe a better idea to create a link to that page?

Reviewer 3: Yes, link is a good idea
